sunday supperNana is a family-owned, organic restaurant offering choices for those who are not only passionate about great tasting food, but who are also passionate about where their food comes from. We source the finest of organic ingredients from farmers, producers and vendors who meet and maintain USDA National Organic Program standards. The products we use [...]What is a 'nana' instead of a 'grandma'?Hi, when I was a kid, some friends had a nana and a grandma.  I got the impression then that this was because one woman was the paternal grandmother and the other woman was the maternal grandmother.  Has anyone ever heard of this division of nicknames for grandmas, or had a nana in the familymy guess is that it just has to do with where people are from and what their background is. Different countries and ethnicities refer to grandparents (and parents for that matter) by different names. there's probably lots of different ways to call your grandparent and everyone on here can tell you different things they call theirs. Grandma is more of an American term and sometimes may call different maternal or paternal - i don't think it makes a difference though who gets what. sometimes i've heard of both being Grandma, but add first or last name to it., they wait to see what the child comes up with - sometimes much cuter than anything we could think of!  A lot of younger grandmothers feel grandma is too old so they often go with Nana or something else a little less traditional.  You can't go wrong with any name though!It can depend on where you live too. Where I was born and raised, we called both of our grandmothers, grandma. Although some people called thier maternal grandmother, nanny or nana. But where I live now both granmothers are usually nanny and great grandmothers are nan nan.Same thing goes for grandfathers, I called both my grandfathers, grandpa but my step-sister calls her maternal grandfather poppy or poppa and her paternal grandpa.Here grandfathers are poppy's and great grandfathers are pop pop's.I don't think there is a real reason but the parents personal feelings on it. If you have say a grandmother that was divorced and remarried and the same thing for the father on both sides, it could get rather confusing for the child so some people call grandmother and grandfathers different things to make it easy for the child to distinguish between grandparents when talking about them. I hope this makes sense.well i have a nana and a ya ya my grandmother on my moms side we called nana and my dads mom we called yaya yaya means grnadmother in greek. my son calls my mom nana and my finaces mom he calls me ma only cuz he can't say grandma and those two are much easier to say.my gramma was both. My brother and I call her gramma and my cousins used to call her nana. Now they also call her gramma. I think it depends on what she wants to be called. My mom will probably be gramma red or something to distinguish from my MIL. My neice and nephew call my MIL "white gramma" (she has white hair) and my SIL's mom is "brown gramma"(brown hair) I think it's funny! :)We have a lot of women in our kids lives, my mom, my grandmother, dh's mom. So my grandmother is "Gram", my mom is "Grandma with the Glasses" and my MIL is "Nana" and FIL is "Papa" Again, family preference.I'm half Greek too so I call my dad's mom ya ya too, and my dad's father was popu.  I will NOT be a ya ya.  I want to be a grandma.  I'm also half Italian so my mom has already said that she wants to be Nana.lol, this is funny... Grandma is such an old name... When I got pregnant, my mom said, 'she can call me ANYTHING, BUT grandma".. because she's only 42... lol, so she's nanna... When we think grandma, we think old lady..I have alot of friends whos moms think the same thing.My dad isnt grandpa either, he's Papaw... and his parents are Papaw and GG, and her parens are Nano and Papie ... My moms dad is Grandpa, and his deceased wife was Nonny, and her parents are Granny and Granddaddy Sugar. (lastname-sugar)You can google different names for grandparents and there are TONS of names.I think it really depends on what the child wants to call your parents and the fathers parents.  My dd calls my mother Nini, and my dh's mother Nina, my father Popi and my dh's father Pops or granddaddy.  I called my mom's mother Mama and my fathers mother grandma and my mom's father was papa.  I really don't think there is anything behind other than that.  It really is funny how children come up with names.  my cousin in-laws call their grandfather "big Daddy".I have known a ton of "nanas" growing up. Although my family went by grandma, I had three friends that used nana, and my husband does also. With my friends, it was their paternal grandparent, and if I remember correctly, all on the mother's side. As far as hubby goes, his nana, whom I have now adopted as my own, is his stepgrandmother. She was young when he was born, and I think that had something to do with it. He also calls his grandfather (now deceased) papa (sounds like pawpaw), and his nana's new hubby granddad.Between our families, we have his mother, my mother, my stepmother, two of my living grandmothers, and his nana. We are looking for fun ways to identify them all.If I remember right, Nema or something similar is grandma is Norwegian or something like that. My MIL initially really liked that, but Nana came so easy for the boys to say, even from a really young age. Grandma took a little longer, which seems to still bug my mom,lol!! All the grandbabies would be able to say the name of a pet before Grandma ; )Again, personal preference. We love nana and papa, fits them both very well.Harley, I liked the thing about nana being the great grandma, and adevotee, nan nan and pop pop made me laugh!  Mary, we have a yiayia and papou in our family too (my Greek stepdad and my mom, who is not so fond of yiayia but does it to match her hubby) and luv babies, I laughed lots at white grandma and brown grandma! I also really liked dandeelyon's report of mamaow and papaow (much more interesting than grandma and grandpa), and getting to Charlestonmom's Big Daddy really did make me laugh again.  Shama is also great.My husband's mom was "Ga" in her family (another of those inventions of a child who couldn't say Grandma) and my Dutch stepmother (may she rest in peace in Grandma Heaven with Ga) was Oma.I'm glad to hear people say they don't think "Nana" is specific to a particular grandmother, because my new stepmom Anne could then be Nana Anne, which I like, hope my child does too.my son call my father pe paw b/c he couldn't say grandpa when he was younger and now even though he can say it he still calls him pe paw i think it is cute. my mom is also only 42 so she didn't want to be called grandma b/c it sounds too old she says.By the way, Andi, I want to thank you again for the recommendation on the fetal doppler monitor.  Mine got held up by an address mix-up at their end, but I got it today, and really not a moment too soon because I had some bleeding last week.  Here was a vigorous little heartbeat at 155 per minute, rumpa-tumping along, and it couldn't have been a nicer piece of news.  Many thanks once more.  AnnieYou know the wierdest names I've ever heard for grandparents were Jee and Jaw. I have no clue why this girl called them that. I don't remember who was Jee and who was Jaw, but it still cracks me up when I think of it.:Pwell im from australia the granperants have what ever name they like usually one side of the family is grandma grandpa and the other side of the family is nana and pop. ive grown up all my life with my mums mum and dad as nana and grandy dont no why grandy but yeah i think you can be whoever you want on my dads side it was grandma grandpa.Growing up my mother's mom was Nanny and her dad was Pappy....but my Father's mom was Nonny and his dad was Pop-pop.  My mother prefers to be called Mom-mom by her grandchildren and my dad was Poppy.  I think it really just depends on what the grand parent wants to be called....another friend has her daughter call her grand parents Mom and Pop.  It could have a lot to to with ethnic background as well.  My children will have an abuela, a mom-mom, and a great nanny and great nonny.I have heard that you should call different grandparents by different names so the child can differeniate between them - When my DD was little we were trying to teach her to say Grandma (for my mom) but it came out Mana - That is what we still call her - DS calls her Nana and they both say Grandma and Grandpa for DH parents - My dad is Big Papa by all the grandkids :o)No problem, I wish I would have had a doppler with my other two boys, they are wonderful for piece of mind. When I stumbled upon that deal in the beginning of my pg, I just knew I needed to share it as the price was wonderful and the prodcut great. I am happy it has helped settle your mind : )I should have known better than to mention the Acky thing,lol! Doomed to an eternity with that nickname!And I agree, it makes it much easier for the kids if each grandparent has a different name and we personally have never been big fans of the "Grandma Marge" type thing, to me it has always seemed a bit disrespectful to call a grandparent by their first name. But again, personal preference reigns for all : ) I love hearing all the creative names, we have family friends who use "GG-Ma" for the great-grandma, too cute!!I have heard that it is the grandparents from the mothers side of the family that go by nanna and poppy and grandma and grandpa are on the fathers side of the family. However in saying that...my sister got in first with the first grandkid and her husband's parents got to decide what they wanted to be called first, so they got dubbed as nanna and poppy. (Not worth mentioning the argument I had with my sister over that) :)my little one's call my step mother 'nana' and my dad 'papa'.  my mom is their 'grandma irene' and my m-i-l is 'grandma phyllis'.  this is mainly due to the fact that my mom lives in cali. and i am in ohio, so we had to make a designation between the two so when they're little they don't get them mixed up.  just kind of a cute story.  you know when you go to someone's house then you say so-and-so's house.  well we would tell my dd that we were going over to grandma phyllis's house.  do you know for about 3 yrs she actually thought my m-i-l's name was phyllis's not phyllis.  so she would say 'grandma phyllis's, can i have a cookie?' and stuff like that.I am a preschool teacher and have heard many names for grandparents over the years... it seems to be variations on how the child pronounces "grandma".  "Nana" is a variation of "grandma" because children are able to say "n" and "m" sounds before "g" and "r" - so it should come out "mama" - rhymes with "nana."  "Mama" (rhymes with nana) is to close to "Mama" (mom) so the child differentiates by pronouncing "nana."  By the time the child is able to pronounce the "g" and "r" sounds, in many cases the "Nana" name has already stuck, so she's Nana instead of Gramma.By the way nana and papa are the easiest for children to pronounce, so if they have a nana AND a gramma, or a papa AND a grampa, they will say nana and papa's names first!That's interesting, because the family I knew when I was a kid who used the nana designation (the one that prompted my post in the first place) used nana for the dad's mom (I recently called a member of that family just to check).  So I guess it's not a hard and fast rule even when there is some kind of designation!  Maybe it's a regional thing.The Content on this Site is presented in a summary fashion, and is intended to be used for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended to be and should not be interpreted as medical advice or a diagnosis of any health or fitness problem, condition or disease; or a recommendation for a specific test, doctor, care provider, procedure, treatment plan, product, or course of action. Med Help International, Inc. is not a medical or healthcare provider and your use of this Site does not create a doctor / patient relationship. We disclaim all responsibility for the professional qualifications and licensing of, and services provided by, any physician or other health providers posting on or otherwise referred to on this Site and/or any Third Party Site. Never disregard the medical advice of your physician or health professional, or delay in seeking such advice, because of something you read on this Site. We offer this Site AS IS and without any warranties. By using this Site you agree to the following Terms and Conditions . If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your physician or 911 immediately.